vault/permanent/notes/202401210001-pkm-dogfooding.md, before:

---
id: 202401210001
title: "PKM Dogfooding Principles"
date: 2024-01-21
type: zettel
tags: [pkm, dogfooding, methodology, implementation]
links: []
created: 2024-01-21T10:00:00Z
modified: 2024-01-21T10:00:00Z
---

# PKM Dogfooding Principles
<!-- ID: 202401210001 -->

## Core Idea
Dogfooding (eating your own dog food) in PKM means using your own knowledge management system for all knowledge work, thereby validating its effectiveness and discovering improvements through direct experience.

## Context
When building a PKM system, the most effective validation comes from using it yourself for real knowledge work. This creates a tight feedback loop between design and usage, revealing both strengths and gaps that theoretical planning might miss.

## Key Principles

1. **Use It For Everything**: All knowledge work must flow through the PKM system
2. **No Exceptions**: Resist using external tools that bypass the system
3. **Document Pain Points**: Friction reveals improvement opportunities
4. **Iterate Rapidly**: Quick cycles between problem and solution
5. **Share Transparently**: Open development builds trust and community

## Benefits of Dogfooding PKM

- **Immediate Feedback**: Problems surface during actual use
- **Authentic Testing**: Real workflows vs. synthetic tests
- **Motivation Alignment**: You're motivated to fix your own pain points
- **Empathy Building**: Experience what users will experience
- **Continuous Improvement**: Daily use drives daily improvements

## Implementation Strategy

1. **Start Simple**: Basic features first, complexity later
2. **Daily Usage**: Make it part of routine immediately
3. **Track Friction**: Note every point of resistance
4. **Prioritize Fixes**: Address biggest pain points first
5. **Share Journey**: Document the process publicly

## Connections
- See also: [[202401210002-iterative-development]]
- Contrasts with: [[202401210003-waterfall-methodology]]
- Builds on: [[202401210004-feedback-loops]]
- Leads to: [[202401210005-system-validation]]

## Evidence
Our own PKM implementation serves as living proof - this vault itself is the dogfooding experiment, with every note, every workflow, and every automation being tested through actual use.

## Questions
- How quickly can feedback be incorporated?
- What's the minimum viable PKM for dogfooding?
- How to balance stability with experimentation?

## References
- Original concept from Microsoft (eating their own dog food)
- Lean Startup methodology - Build, Measure, Learn
- Our implementation: `/vault/1-projects/pkm-system/`

---
*Zettelkasten Note - One idea, fully developed*

Commit message:

feat: Ingest Jorge Arango's Claude Code for IA article into PKM
- Captured article to inbox with comprehensive summary
- Created 7 atomic notes covering key concepts:
  - Claude Code for Information Architecture
  - LLM forest vs trees problem
  - Agentic tools for IA
  - Content as code approach
  - Taxonomy generation with AI
  - Jarango.com case study
  - Graph RAG limitations
- Created integration resource document for PKM system enhancement
- Initiated Claude Code IA implementation project
- Added bidirectional links to existing PKM notes
- Identified opportunities to enhance our PKM with Claude Code capabilities

This ingestion provides valuable insights for improving our PKM system's
taxonomy generation and content organization using AI-powered approaches.

vault/permanent/notes/202401210001-pkm-dogfooding.md, after:

---
id: 202401210001
title: "PKM Dogfooding Principles"
date: 2024-01-21
type: zettel
tags: [pkm, dogfooding, methodology, implementation]
links: ["[[202508231435-claude-code-for-information-architecture]]", "[[202508231438-content-as-code-approach]]"]
created: 2024-01-21T10:00:00Z
modified: 2024-01-21T10:00:00Z
---

# PKM Dogfooding Principles
<!-- ID: 202401210001 -->

## Core Idea
Dogfooding (eating your own dog food) in PKM means using your own knowledge management system for all knowledge work, thereby validating its effectiveness and discovering improvements through direct experience.

## Context
When building a PKM system, the most effective validation comes from using it yourself for real knowledge work. This creates a tight feedback loop between design and usage, revealing both strengths and gaps that theoretical planning might miss.

## Key Principles

1. **Use It For Everything**: All knowledge work must flow through the PKM system
2. **No Exceptions**: Resist using external tools that bypass the system
3. **Document Pain Points**: Friction reveals improvement opportunities
4. **Iterate Rapidly**: Quick cycles between problem and solution
5. **Share Transparently**: Open development builds trust and community

## Benefits of Dogfooding PKM

- **Immediate Feedback**: Problems surface during actual use
- **Authentic Testing**: Real workflows vs. synthetic tests
- **Motivation Alignment**: You're motivated to fix your own pain points
- **Empathy Building**: Experience what users will experience
- **Continuous Improvement**: Daily use drives daily improvements

## Implementation Strategy

1. **Start Simple**: Basic features first, complexity later
2. **Daily Usage**: Make it part of routine immediately
3. **Track Friction**: Note every point of resistance
4. **Prioritize Fixes**: Address biggest pain points first
5. **Share Journey**: Document the process publicly

## Connections
- See also: [[202401210002-iterative-development]]
- Contrasts with: [[202401210003-waterfall-methodology]]
- Builds on: [[202401210004-feedback-loops]]
- Leads to: [[202401210005-system-validation]]

## Evidence
Our own PKM implementation serves as living proof - this vault itself is the dogfooding experiment, with every note, every workflow, and every automation being tested through actual use.

## Questions
- How quickly can feedback be incorporated?
- What's the minimum viable PKM for dogfooding?
- How to balance stability with experimentation?

## References
- Original concept from Microsoft (eating their own dog food)
- Lean Startup methodology - Build, Measure, Learn
- Our implementation: `/vault/1-projects/pkm-system/`

---
*Zettelkasten Note - One idea, fully developed*
